Update GSoC main page for 2024 (#6795)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/projects/gsoc/2024/project-ideas/buiilding-android-app.adoc

---
layout: gsocprojectidea
title: "Building Android Apps with Jenkins"
goal: "Describe best practices and provide architectural templates for building Android applications with Jenkins"
category: Tools
year: 2024
status: draft
sig: platform
skills:
- Java
- YAML
- Android development
- Command line tools
- Package management tool theory
mentors:
- "gounthar"
links:
    emailThread: https://community.jenkins.io/t/gsoc-2023-project-idea-building-android-apps-with-jenkins/4798
---
//   gitter: "jenkinsci_plugin-installation-manager-cli-tool:gitter.im"
//   draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s-dLUfU1OK-88bCj-GKaNuFfJQlQNLTWtacKkVMVmHc

=== Background

Applying CI principles when building IOS applications brings its own challenges, different from those of more classical applications.

> How to proceed, what are the successful patterns, what are the pitfalls is poorly documented. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Topics such as _how to proceed_, _what are the successful patterns_, and _what are the pitfalls_ are poorly documented. 
```
suggestion to add some syntax so that the sentence reads more clearly and emphasizes the topics a bit more.

> It very often requires potential user and Jenkins Administrator to "reinvent the wheel".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It very often requires potential users and Jenkins Administrators to "reinvent the wheel".
```
Updating pluralization so that this is more clear.

Some experiments are link:https://github.com/gounthar/MyFirstAndroidAppBuiltByJenkins[available] and were link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fmTdT4Y-uCw&ab_channel=JeanQuinze[presented publicly].

> The proof of concept could be the docker-compose based. It would works under Windows, Linux, Vagrant, macOS (x86 and ARM), and mostly on Gitpod.
> It should be easily transposable to a production environment.
> The demo/proof-of-concept would be composed of a Jenkins controller (configured with JCasc), an Android agent, a generic Docker agent, an Android emulator, and an Android device farm (link:https://github.com/DeviceFarmer[STF]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proof of concept could be docker-compose based.
It would work under Windows, Linux, Vagrant, macOS (x86 and ARM), and _mostly_ on Gitpod.
It should be easily transposable to a production environment.
The demo/proof-of-concept would be composed of a Jenkins controller (configured with JCasc), an Android agent, a generic Docker agent, an Android emulator, and an Android device farm (link:https://github.com/DeviceFarmer[STF]).
```
Some suggestion for syntax/grammar, not sure what the `mostly` indicates next to Gitpod (it works for the most part but not completely?) would it be possible to perhaps clarify that?

> The idea is to have a more precise status of what can be done now with Jenkins. We could then amend the existing link:/solutions/android/[documentation] and describe architectures for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea is to have a more precise status of what can be done now with Jenkins.
We could then amend the existing link:/solutions/android/[Android documentation] and describe architectures for:
```
suggestion for clarification & formatting.
